# Guided Exploration No. 3

## Creating a “Rap Name Generator” Using Python

In this guided exploration you will learn how to use Python to create a program to that creates random “Rap Names”.

## Terminology

The following are the Python Functions and Methods utilized in this exercise:

    - import (Module 2)
    - random Python library (Module 4) 
    - open() (Module 5)
    - .write() (Module 5)
    - .close() (Module 5)
    - with (New!)
    - for (Module 1)
    - range() (Module 1)
    - int() (Module 2)
    - print() (Module 1)
    - input() (Module 1)
    - .append() (Module 5)
    - .rstrip() (Module 5)
    - random.randint() (Module 4)
    - len() (Module 3)
    - .join() (Module 5)

## Submission

- For this exercise you **will not** be making screenshots of Visual Studio Code.
- You **will be creating a Python program** using a “**snippets**” file. The snippets file contains all of the code that you will need to create a functioning program.
- You must comment the code where specified in the Details below.
- Once you have completed your work, be sure to Save, Stage, Commit and Push your work back to GitHub.

## Questions

At any time if you have questions, please ask them in the Slack #questions channel. You can also directly contact Bruce on Slack.

## Details

You must follow these steps **carefully**:

1. This exercise will use GitHub Classroom and will have you clone down a GitHub repository.
2. Clone down from GitHub this assignment. (LINK LINK LINK)
3. Open the assignment folder in Visual Studio Code.
4. Note the following files that are in the folder:
   - **README.md** - This is the file that you are currently reading.
   - **rap-names.txt** - This is a text file that has 80 words/numbers that will be used to generate rap names
   - **code-snippets.txt** - This is a text file that contains code snippets that you will need to copy and paste into the **rap-name-generator.py** file. The Details below will step you through this.
   - **rap-name-generator.py** - This is the Python file that you will be working in along with the code in the **code-snippets.txt** file.
   - **rap-names-output.txt** - This file will get created by the code that you create.
5. Now it’s time to work with the snippets file and the **rap-name-generator.py** files.
6. Open the **snippets file** and the Python file in **separate** Visual Studio Code tabs.
7. The first thing you will need to do is changed YOUR NAME to your name.
8. Next **copy Snippet 1** into your **rap-name-generator.py** file. We will need the **Python random library** to generate a random number. We will be using the **random.randint()** method. More on this later.
9. **Anywhere where you see ‘# COMMENT THIS CODE’ you will need to add a meaningful comment describing what the code does.**
10. Next, **copy Snippet 2** into your code. This code will declare an empty list named possible_names. This will be used to store all of the rap names from the rap-names.txt file.
11. Next, **copy Snippet 3** into your code. This code will be used to open a new file named **rap-names-output.txt**. It will store the names that are generated by your code.
12. Next, **copy Snippet 4** into your code. This code does a few things. It used something that you have not seen in Python yet, which is the “**with**” keyword. Note that this statement opens the **rap-names.txt** for read access. It then assigns a “**handle**” to the file named “**dataFile**”, which is a variable. It tells Python to open the file and then with that file, do stuff. All of the “stuff” to do is indented below the with statement which ends with a “**:**”.
13. You will next see a **for loop**. This for loop is going to iterate through each line in the **rap-names.txt** file, one line at a time.
14. During each iteration of the loop, it reads in a line from the **rap-names.txt** file and then strips off the **invisible line-feed** that’s at the end of each line. This is done using the **.rstrip()** string method.
15. The name is then appended to the **possible_names** list. This list will be used in another part of the code to randomly pick list elements from to build the rap name.
16. Next, **copy Snippet 5** into your code. This code needs to NOT be within the for or with statements. It needs to be fully outdented. This code will prompt the user for the number of rap names to generate along with how many parts should be part of the entire rap name. Be sure to comment the code where asked for within the code snippet.
17. Next, **copy Snippet 6** into your code. This code is going to use a counted loop to generate the total number of rap names the user wants to generate.  Notice that a new empty list is being declared within the loop. This is the list that will hold the rap name parts.  The next counted loop will iterate for the number of rap names that the user wants as part of the names. Each time it iterates it will randomly select a names from the **possible_names** list and append it to the **name_parts** list. Notice the code inside of the **.append()** method. There are two parameters. Here is the code that’s inside of the **.append()** method: **possible_names[random.randint(0, len(possible_names)-1)]**.  What needs to happen here is that the code needs to generate a random number so it can get the rap name from the **possible_names** list. The **random.randint()** method needs a to generate this number from 0 to the length of the **possible_names** list and then subtract one from it. This is because Python lists start at 0. It will then use that random number to get a name from the possible_names list and append it to the **name_parts** list. Be sure to comment the code where asked for within the code snippet.
18. Next, **copy Snippet 7** into your code. Make sure that it lines up with the for loop above it. It’s only going to write out a name after the parts of it have been generated. Again, it needs to align with the **for j in range(parts)**. This code is going to take the handle to the file where we are going to write out the generated rap names too. Note that within the **.write()** method is the code **f"{' '.join(name_parts)}\n”**. This code will take the **name_parts** list contents and glue them together with a space. That’s a space between the ' ‘. A new line character (\n) is added to the string. Note the use of an f string to build the completed rap name that will be written to the output file. Note that one line writes it to the output file and the other displays it in the terminal within VS Code. Be sure to comment the code where asked for within the code snippet.
19. Next, **copy Snippet 8** into your code. This line will close the output file using the **.close()** file method. Be sure to comment the code where asked for within the code snippet.
20. **Test your code** by running the **rap-name-generator.py** file. Make sure that it’s working correctly. Also, make sure that it’s properly writing the rap names generated to the rap-names-output.txt file.
21. Save, Stage, Commit and Push your work back to GitHub.
22. That’s it! You have reached the end of Guided Exploration No. 3. You should now have a better idea how Python can be used to generate random names from a list as well as writing output to a file.
23. Have a nice day.
